# Hypermarket-Database-Management-System

The primary objective of this project was to design and implement a Database Management System (DBMS) for helping international students in Boston to accustomed to the city's purchasing practices. Our database can help students manage everything related to buying the best product according to their needs without disturbing their daily chores and studies.

The database was modelled considering the problems faced by international students on a day-to- day basis. For creating the EER and UML Model, we used an online tool called Lucidchart, which is a web-based application that allows users to visually collaborate on sharing charts and diagrams. This was followed by the mapping of the conceptual model to a relational model with the required primary and foreign keys. This relational model was then implemented using MySQL Workbench where we created 15 tables relevant to our problem statement and created sample queries to validate it. Three tables out of these were taken to implement the NoSQL part on MongoDB Compass.

The project also includes implementation on Python software. We connected our database to Python using MySQL Connector to work on some real-life analytics by generating some visualizations to understand the trend of our data. The future scope of this project would be to consider various other problems faced by international students so that we can expand the horizon of this project as well as submit our findings and implementations to the university so that they can help the students overcome these.

## I. Introduction

In the past few years, the number of international students traveling to the United States of America to pursue their higher education has increased sharply. The cultural diversity, vibrant lifestyle, and flexible education system makes the USA the topmost preferred destination for international students. According to a study abroad report, it is estimated that around 1,075,496 international students are enrolled in various universities spread across the country. Boston has traditionally been a desirable location for aspirational students because of its rich academic history. Students encounter a variety of challenges as they adjust to this new environment over the course of several months. International students may not be aware of many of those challenges, even if some may be clear. To be completely competitive in the United States, international students must overcome several significant obstacles, one of which is becoming accustomed to the country's purchasing practices.

A hypermarket is a big store combining a supermarket and a department store. As a result, a sizable retail space was created that houses a large variety of goods under one roof, including complete supermarket lines and general commodities. Customers can complete all their shopping needs in hypermarkets in a single trip. Some famous examples of hypermarkets in Boston are Walmart, Costco, Target, and IKEA. Hypermarkets have many advantages, but some of the significant problems international students (including us) have faced while buying products from hypermarkets are: American fast food is underhandedly ample, and international students find the quantity quite abundant. Hence it is essential to take calorie intake into account. There is a variation in the price of the same product in different stores in hypermarkets. Overspending on a product leads to very little savings at the end of the month; Students do not get timely information regarding sales, discounts, or arrival of a new product which leads to increased time and effort for traveling to the store, purchasing a product, and traveling back.
Hence there is a need to build a Database Management System (DBMS) to solve this real-life problem by helping students compare a particular product available in different hypermarkets that would be the best for them based on several factors. We have selected the most relevant domains that students buy from on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis, for example, groceries, clothing, toiletries, appliances, FnB, and electronics. Many students can benefit from this project by getting information about the best product at the most minimal cost and plan their shopping accordingly without wasting time researching the stores.
